# WFCC
Code for the algorithm Weight-Filtration Comparison Curve (WFCC) to compare weighted graphs with equal labelled vertices and edges, but different weightings. The algorithm takes as inputs the transition matrices, and outputs a curve visualising the number of non-common edges over an edge-filtration. 

Supplementary code and data files to produce the results in the paper (main text and SI) are also included. The file 'Example_WFCC.ipynb' is a Jupyter Notebook showing an example of the algorithm. The file 'main.ipynb' is the Jupyter Notebook that reproduces all the figures and computations in the main text of the paper, except for the MDS, which are produced in the R file 'mds.R'. 'main_Functions.py' is the Python code of just the functions required. 'diff-cubes.R' is the R code to generate the synthetic hypercubes we considered, with probability and flux weightings.

The folder `Data_files_hypercubes` contains all the data files needed. 'Klebsiella_clinical_data' is the original real data to run HyperHMM. 'Klebsiella' is the folder with the HyperHMM outputs of the continents. 'Klebsiella_subsampled' contains the HyperHMM outputs from subsampled clinical data. 'Synthetic_data_to_run_HMM_TraPS' contains the synthetic data mimicking clinical data, to be run on HyperHMM and HyperTraPS, and the corresponding outputs are found in 'results_synthetic_data' for HyperHMM and 'hypertrapsTransMatrices' for HyperTraPS. 'Synthetic_data_all_zeros_to_run_HMM_TraPS' is synthetic data mimicking clinical where all samples are the string of all zeros, to be run on HyperHMM and HyperTraPS, and the corresponding outputs are 'Hyperhmm_sample_zero' and 'Hypertraps_sample_zero'. Lastly, 'Outputs_github' is an empty folder to direct there the plots in png form and the data files in csv form that are generated in the Jupyter Notebook.

HyperTraPS was run using https://github.com/StochasticBiology/hypertraps-simple and HyperHMM was run using https://github.com/StochasticBiology/hypercube-hmm.
